Thank you for deciding to volunteer at Free Geek! These policies were created to maintain the 
safety

and well being of Free Geek's mission, staff and volunteers. Please read them carefully before 

signing the Volunteer Application Form.

Free Geek commits to:

• Providing adequate information, training and assistance to volunteers in order to meet the 

responsibilities of their position.

• Ensuring supervisory aid to volunteers and providing feedback on performance.

• Respecting the skills, dignity and individual needs of all volunteers.

• Being receptive to volunteer feedback regarding ways in which we might mutually better 

accomplish our respective tasks. 

Volunteer Opportunities at Free Geek

*You cannot combine hours between the Adoption and Build programs to get a free computer.

Adoption Program: This is the quickest way to get a computer. Volunteers donate 24 hours of 
their time in exchange for the 

system. This program has the most flexibility when scheduling volunteer shifts.

• Recycling Bench: Standing up and taking apart PC systems. Volunteers must be at least 4'7” and 
be able to lift up to 20 lbs.

• Recycling Table: Sitting down and disassembling smaller electronics.

• Sorting Table: Standing up and sorting donations.

• Receiving Runner: Standing up and carrying items into Free Geek and taking them to the 
Warehouse, sorting items, testing 

equipment. This position requires the ability to lift and carry 40-50 lbs.

Build Program: Volunteers in this program learn how to build their own computer. No prior 
experience is necessary! If you agree to

complete at least five computers, we will teach you the process. This program focuses on 
learning about building computers, but you 

can keep the sixth computer you complete. The build program is an estimated 60-80 hour time 
commitment and shifts are available 

during set hours only. There are parts of the build program that will require the ability to 
read (English or Spanish) flow charts , 

computer screens, and follow basic technical instructions. This program is extremely popular, so 
it may take some time to 

schedule your volunteer shifts and build your take-home computer.

*If you are interested in a particular volunteer position but do not meet the requirements 
listed above, please contact 

a staff member to see if Free Geek is able to make reasonable accommodations for you.

Post Build Volunteer Opportunities: We also have several volunteer positions for folks who 
complete the Build Program (or have 

a comparable experience-level) and would like to help us out in other ways. These include 
Hardware Testing, Hardware Grants, 

Server Build, Laptops, and MacLand. We always have a high need for volunteers in these areas. 
Completing the Build program 

and/or instructor approval are prerequisites for these positions.

Internships: Free Geek offers a variety of Internships to those that have the time and interest 
to work outside of our main volunteer

programs. Interns volunteer on a set schedule (guaranteed volunteer opportunities), learn 
valuable skill sets and play a vital role in 

the health of Free Geek as an organization. Visit www.freegeek.org/internships for more 
information and to apply.

• Volunteers must complete & sign the Volunteer Application and go on an orientation tour before 
volunteering.

• Volunteers must check in at the front desk at the beginning of every shift and log volunteer 
hours at the front desk at the end of 

each shift. Misrepresentation of volunteer hours could result in your dismissal from your 
volunteer program. 

• Volunteers and guests must check their bags at the front desk. Please leave your valuables at 
home.

• We count on our Free Geek volunteers! Please let us know if you are going to be absent or 
late.

• For each volunteer shift of 6 to 8 hours you should take a half hour lunch break. We also 
encourage you to take a 15 minute rest 

break in every 3 1⁄2 - 4 hour shift. The 15 minute breaks are not deducted from your hours.

• Please make sure to clean up after yourselves in our public areas, including the kitchens and 
the volunteer lounge area.

• Volunteers under the age of 16 must be accompanied by a responsible adult.

Volunteer Policies and Procedures

Your safety is very important to us!

• Wear closed-toe shoes in any work area and the appropriate clothing for your task.

• Wear the provided safety equipment, such as gloves, goggles, dust masks and ear protection as 
needed.

• Utilize proper lifting techniques.

• Safely stack computers, printers and boxes without blocking aisles, exits or safety features.

• Wash hands thoroughly after handling computer components. 

• Report any unsafe conditions to staff.

• Report any injuries to a staff member right away.

• Bring food or open beverage containers into the work areas.

• Block access to fire extinguishers or circuit breaker boxes.

Everyone must be treated with respect in order for Free Geek to be a safe and comfortable 
environment for all volunteers and staff. 

The following are not acceptable behaviors at Free Geek:

• Acts or threats of violence, including intimidation, harassment, and/or coercion.

• Attitudes, judgments, jokes and language that are discriminatory or demeaning on the basis of 
race, class, gender, sex, age, 

spoken language, nationality, culture, physical appearance, sexual orientation, or 
ability/disability.

• Any volunteer under the influence of alcohol or drugs will be asked to leave for the day. If 
this behavior persists, you may be asked

• Volunteers are also prohibited from working under the influence of any prescription drugs that 
may impair the ability to work in a 

• Smoking is only permitted in the designated smoking area outside. 

If you are lawfully, openly carrying an item that can be classified as a 'deadly weapon' in the 
state of Oregon, and its presence makes

individuals at Free Geek uncomfortable, please keep in mind that you will be asked to check the 
item at the front desk or remove it 

from the premises. If you are unable to do so, you will be asked to leave for the day. If you 
are carrying an illegal weapon, you will 

Using Free Geek's public terminals

Free Geek loves to provide free Internet access to all its volunteers. Ask for a pass at the 
Donation Desk. Please make sure you pick 

up after yourself in these areas and follow the Acceptable Use Policy posted on the wall by the 
computer terminals.

There are many folks at Free Geek who are sensitive to scented products, such as perfumes and 
colognes. Please respect this by 

refraining from wearing such products while volunteering here. Thanks!

The street parking directly in front of Free Geek is only for very short stays and there are 
2-hour parking spots in the neighborhood 

south of Free Geek. Parking enforcement inspects regularly, so you might need to move your car 
during your shift if you stay longer 

than 2 hours. Free Geek offers a limited number of parking passes that you can borrow from the 
Donor Desk by leaving a driver's 

• If a policy is violated, a verbal or written warning may be issued.

• If the review and/or warning are ignored, the volunteer may be asked to leave and can no 
longer volunteer with Free Geek.

• Free Geek reserves the right to terminate a volunteer position at any time if necessary to 
ensure the mental and physical safety of 

volunteers and staff. This may be temporary or permanent.

• Volunteers can earn free computers by participating in our Adoption and Build Programs. 

• Active volunteers get a 20% discount in the Thrift Store. (active = 3 volunteer hours in the 
last 30 days)

• First Tech Credit Union membership (for more info call 1.800.637.0852)

• Free Geek recognizes volunteers who reach specific hourly milestones each month.

• All volunteers who were active in the past year are invited to attend our annual Volunteer 
Appreciation Party held every summer.

How volunteers help Free Geek: Free Geek could not exist without its fabulous volunteers. 
Volunteers evaluate and refurbish 

incoming hardware, disassemble obsolete hardware, sort incoming donations, teach classes, and so 
much more. Thank you for your 

interest in volunteering with us and we appreciate your help!

(503) 232-9350

1731 SE 10th Ave.

Portland, OR 97214

(2 blocks South of Hawthorne on SE 10th Ave.)

We accept hardware & financial donations Tuesday – Saturday 10am – 6pm

Shop for reused items in our store Monday – Saturday 10am – 6pm

Shop online anytime: Ebay - http://is.gd/fgebay & Amazon - http://is.gd/fgamazon

Find us online: www.freegeek.org

www.facebook.com/freegeekmothership - Facebook

https://twitter.com/FreeGeekPDX - Twitter

https://twitter.com/FGThriftStore – Twitter (Thrift Store)

http://lists.freegeek.org – Mailing lists

Questions? Comments? Complaints? You can confidentially let us know about your concerns via our 
Director of Public Services or our 

general info email: dheiber@freegeek.org (503) 232-9350 x 111 or info@freegeek.org

Thank you for volunteering at Free Geek! YOU make the difference!
